{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang3081{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Verdana;}{\f1\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f2\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f3\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.10586}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\b\f0\fs22 President\rquote s Report\~\b0\line for 2015 AGM North Queensland Ensembles Inc.\~\line\fs20\line The Barrier Reef Orchestra is in a sound financial position with concert attendance and revenue from tickets up for 2013.\~\line\line The Orchestra has performed on six occasions over the last 12 months. This included a children\rquote s concert at Riverway featuring music from Harry Potter and Peter and the Wolf. The concert was well received by the audience and the Orchestra got into the mood by dressing up appropriately for their musical characters.\~\line\line Masterworks conducted by Mark Sheills, featuring the 2013 Australian Concerto and Vocal Competition winner was performed in September with a follow up performance in Burdekin. \line\line Last Night of the Proms was performed in November and conducted by Richard McIntyre with the audience joining in with antics. \par
The new year began with a successful season launch at the Pier Restaurant which featured our new harp much to the enjoyment of those present. The Mayor of Townsville, Councillor Jenny Hill, officially launched the 2015 season and spoke of the importance of the Barrier Reef Orchestra to Townsville. Not long after that was Sounds of Romance conducted by Raymond Yong. There was an issue of parking at the venue but this was taken up with the Council.\line\line The Orchestra was invited to open the Townsville Arts Awards with a cameo performance with music from Frozen much to the audiences\rquote  pleasure, particularly with the AV accompaniment. The Barrier Reef Orchestra will conduct the second Conducting Workshop at the end of May as it was so successful in 2013.\~\line\line For the rest of the year there is our support to the AFCM concert, our World Music Concert commissioned by the Civic Theatre (a first for BRO), support to DanceNorth with their Twilight performances and lastly a Musical Feast for November.\~\line\line To make all of this happen there is a dynamic and committed committee working busily to bring this all together. I thank them all for their magnificent work. Many thanks to our major sponsor the Townsville City Council, our generous benefactors and to the Orchestra Manager Sally Frewen-Lord who has found time to run a survey for the musicians to get accommodating feedback. \line\line Jeff Nielsen has reworked our website and taken great steps forward in producing a functional and relevant website. Jeff will no longer be operating our website, but we thank you for your continued efforts. Marking the 15\super th\nosupersub  anniversary of the Barrier Reef Orchestra an introduction of life members will be added to the website. \line\line The Barrier Reef Orchestra has taken the opportunity to be directly involved with the development of the TPAC proposal. It is necessary to support all of the arts organisations to promote the need for more performance spaces in Townsville. Simon has injected himself into this project with the usual eye for detail while keeping appraised of the macro developments in Townsville. Thanks Simon for your energy and incisive views on this important project.\~\line\line The 15th anniversary year of BRO has been marked by several approaches to the Orchestra to perform in support of other arts organisations. This is seen as a sign of confidence others see in our Orchestra. Along with acceptance of the Barrier Reef Orchestra as Townsville\rquote s resident cultural cornerstone to orchestral music. A fitting milestone for the 15th year of the Barrier Reef Orchestra.\~\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Yoshika Masuda (Cello)\par
Born in Kobe, Japan, Yoshika Masuda first started to play the cello at the age of five. Following studies with George Pedersen in Australia, he went onto study at the Royal Northern College of Music in Manchester on a full scholarship. Yoshika was recently awarded first prize at both the Australian Concerto & Vocal Competition and the YMF National Debut Concerto Competition, and is also the winner of the Yamaha Music Foundation of Europe String Award. He has also won top prizes at the Sydney Cello Award, Australian National Youth Concerto Competition and the J A Beare International Solo Bach Competition. Yoshika has performed concertos and recitals throughout Australia, Austria, France, Italy, Japan, the UK and USA.\line\line Yoshika gained his Bachelor of Music with first class honours from the RNCM, receiving both the Sir John Munduell Principals\rquote s Prize and the Leonard Rose Cello Award for outstanding achievement. He also completed his Master of Music at the RNCM with distinction the following year.\par
Yoshika is currently continuing his studies in Los Angeles as a Doctorate student. Yoshika\rquote s cello is a fine Carl Becker model (1930), loaned to him from a private foundation.\par
\fs24 LIFE MEMBERS\b\f1\fs28\par

\pard\widctlpar\fs22 Jacinta Payne  \par
\b0 Life member since May 2015\par
Jacinta has been part of the Orchestra from the day she played the Clarinet and placed 1\super st\nosupersub  at the event on Sunday, 29\super th\nosupersub  October 2000. Payne has been on the management committee and was a voluntary manager of the Orchestra. \par
Payne has had the position of Rehearsal Conductor on many occasions and conducted a performance in 2004. \par
Over the years, Payne has been able to encourage many players to join the Orchestra through her teaching skills. She has also mentored many young woodwind players. \par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\par
\b Alan Nixon\par
\b0 Life Member since May 2015 \b\par

\pard\widctlpar\sl252\slmult1\b0 Alan has been Secretary of North Queensland Ensembles Inc. and Barrier Reef Orchestra for eight years. He is a former Commonwealth Government officer mainly in the Commonwealth Employment Service. Prior to retirement he was the Departments Zone Manager for North Queensland. Nixon expertise has served the Orchestra well. He was also Secretary at the time when we employed our first Orchestra Manager.  Nixon has a background in community service having been both Australian Jaycees and Rotary. He has also had experience as an actor, producer, and Committee member with several theatre groups across the state. \par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\b\par
Stephen Frewen-Lord \par

\pard\widctlpar\sl252\slmult1\b0 Life member since May 2015\par
Stephen has been involved with the Barrier Reef Orchestra since its establishment. He played as concert master in the Orchestra\rquote s Inaugural Concert in 2000. Since then, he has missed few concerts and has been concert master for many other concerts. When Stephen was not rehearsing he was attending many other ensembles in Townsville. He manages and plays with the Melaleuca String Quartet, directed Strings Non Troppo, and plays in Double Play (a guitar/violin duo). Stephen has had regular involvement with the Mulkadee Arts Festival, and performs regularly in community events. This includes: Eco Fiesta, Riverfest, Heritage Day and Stable on the Strand. In his role as concert master over the past 15 years, Stephen has enjoyed many discussions with guest conductors concerning the artistic direction of the Orchestra. As a string teacher, he has encouraged many young players who share the same passion for music to become members of the Orchestra. Stephen is looking forward to passing on his position to the next BRO concert master. \par
\f0\fs20\line Carol Dall\rquote Osto \par
Life Member since July 2010\f1\fs22\par
Carol has been a leading figure in music performances in Townsville for many years, even though she lived in Ingham until the 2000s when she moved to Townsville. Carol is a piano teacher, accompanist, and musical director of the Australia Concerto and Vocal Competition which she has led since 1991. She was the chairperson of the North Queensland Ensembles Committee (the parent organisation for the Orchestra), a positon she held until 2003.   \par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\f0\fs20\par
Jenny Carr\par
Life member since July 2010\par
After coming to Australia in the early 70s Carr instantly became an integral part of the Townsville music scene as a pianist and instrumental music teacher. In 1998, the decision to establish a community orchestra was made, Carr worked as a librarian, performer, and for many years a manager. In conjunction with Donna McMahan and Susan Linge (from the Civic Theatre), they arranged a series of concerts for the emerging Orchestra. Carr was a substitute pianist when the Orchestra was short. As manager, she was involved in all aspects of the Orchestra, including music and attendances. In later years, Carr worked as Adjudicator\rquote s Assistant for the Australian Vocal and Concerto Competition. \par
Donna McMahon\par
Life Member since July 2010\par
Donna has been a leader of the Townsville music community since she arrived in 1973 fresh from the Conservatorium to teach strings for Education Queensland. Until 2009 she has also been involved with the Townsville Youth Orchestra, the Australian String Teachers\rquote  Association, the Australian Concerto & Vocal Competition, and lately of course the Barrier Reef Orchestra. Apart from being one of the prime movers in the formation of the BRO, she has been performer, rehearsal conductor, musical advisor, & visiting conductor liaison. In 2009, she was rehearsal conductor, played with the orchestra, and managed the music library. She recently graduated with a Masters Degree in Music from James Cook University.\b\f1\fs22\par
\b0 David Pearse\par
Life Member since June 2006\par
\f0\fs20 David was heavily involved with the Townsville music scene from the 1970s, including the formation of the BRO in 1999. He was made a Life Member by the Committee in June 2006, when he and his wife Elizabeth left Townsville to live in Canberra.\f1\fs22\par
\b\par
\par
\par
\par
\f0 History of the Orchestra\~\b0\fs20\line Over a two-year period during the nineties, Townsville musicians, arts workers and a group of people who had a love for music realised the potential for developing a community-based Orchestra \emdash  one that would flourish and become an integral part of the City\rquote s cultural life.\~\line\line In 2000 to \lquote test\rquote  the viability of establishing an Orchestra a weekend workshop was arranged and musicians were invited to participate under the baton of Richard McIntyre, Senior Lecturer at the Canberra School of Music and this was when the Barrier Reef Orchestra was born.\~\par
\line During the past few years, the Orchestra has performed with the comedy-duo Scared Weird Little Guys in Score, Townsville City Council\rquote s Last Night of the Proms and A Christmas Carol. In 2003 the Council\rquote s centenary year the Orchestra took part in Encore, as well as playing a major role in the Townsville Civic Theatre\rquote s 25th Anniversary productions of Noye\rquote s Fludde and Carmina Burana.\~\line\line In a typical year, the Barrier Reef Orchestra, with support of North Queensland Ensembles Inc, performs three times generally with a guest conductor and occasionally with other performing groups. Smaller ensembles, all utilising players from the Orchestra, regularly give concerts \emdash  Orpheus Strings, Pandanus Winds, Kingfisher Trio, Centenary Concert Band and the Barrier Reef Chamber Orchestra. In 2004, the Orchestra presented its first subscription series of three concerts receiving sponsorship from Queensland Nickel \endash  Yabulu.\~\line\line The high standard is due to the immense guidance and inspiration of our founding Patron, Professor John Hopkins OBE and conductor Richard McIntyre OAM.\~\line\line In March 2006, the orchestra became a true North Queensland orchestra with a number of string players from Cairns travelled to Townsville to rehearse under Professor Hopkins for the planned Tchaikovsky concert. Unfortunately, due to cyclone Larry there was no repeat performance. \line\line The final concert for 2006, \lquote Amadeus\rquote , celebrated the life of this great composer in his 250th anniversary year. The Barrier Reef Orchestra could think of no better way in which to celebrate their sixth anniversary!\~\line\line\b 2007\b0\~\line\line In 2007 BRO performed the Beethoven Triple Concerto with visiting Seraphim Trio from Melbourne. The orchestra repeated the concert in Cairns with no Cyclone Larry this time!\~\line\line A string ensemble drawn from the larger orchestra was invited by Piers Lane the new Director of the AFCM, to perform for the first time in the Australian Festival of Chamber Music, accompanying Australian Opera Baritone Peter Coleman-Wright, a very successful concert.\~\line\line The Governor of Queensland became the patron of the Orchestra joining the founding patron Professor John Hopkins to inspire the further development of the orchestra and the year culminated in a sell-out concert featuring James Morrison, conductor Sean O"Boyle, jazz vocalist Emma Pask and a collaboration with Townsville Brass and the rhythm section from the amazing 1 RAR Band. The event of the year!\~\line\line\b 2008\b0\~\line In 2008 this last concert generated an award from the Townsville City Council as "Best Musical Event 2007" and after a mammoth launch at the Townsville City Council Chambers the year began with a concert of visiting UK conductor Mark Eager. This was a collaboration with a combined High Schools orchestra and demonstrated the depth of musical talent flowing up from the district's excellent Instrumental Music programs. The concert culminated in BRO combining with the high school orchestra for a stirring 1812 Overture!\~\line\line Then followed a terrific concert featuring Matthew Rigby, the 2007 winner of the North Queensland Concerto and Vocal Competition, conducted by John Hopkins OBE, continuing a fruitful collaboration promoting young rising musicians.\~\line\line This was closely followed by a 2008 performance at the AFCM with the orchestra ensemble playing a Carl Vine composition "The Battlers" which was conducted by the composer.\~\line\line Also at this occasion the orchestra accompanied Innisfail-born, London-based concert pianist Piers Lane. The orchestra greatly appreciates such opportunities to perform alongside such inspiring artists.\~\line\line Conductor Richard McIntyre returned with rising Oboist Megan Billing and BRO to perform in Slavonic Swoon, featuring works by Dvorak, Smetana and Martinu.\~\line\line 2008 culminated in the return of Sean O'Boyle who brought with him James Morrison, Emma Pask and Catherine Lynagh (Qld Piano Competition winner) and another collaboration with 1RAR musicians.\~\line\line\b 2009\b0\~\line\b The Barrier Reef Orchestra proudly announced that her Excellency, the Governor of Queensland Penelope Wensley agreed to be patron of our Orchestra.\b0\~\line\line 2009 was a year of highs and lows for the Barrier Reef Orchestra. With our first concert in March conducted by Richard McIntyre but we experienced pre-concert drama as our soloist had to retire. We fortunately were able to get Marcus Stocker at the last minute to play the Dvorak concerto. The program of Dvorak and Sibelius challenged the orchestra but the challenge and drama became greater due to the failure of the air conditioning at Riverway.\~\line\line With the venue getting hotter and hotter during rehearsal we had to decide whether to go ahead or cancel the event. We decided to go ahead and most of our loyal audience stayed with us but it was hard going. \line\line Our mid year concert had to be cancelled due to the majority of the orchestra going away for a music camp. Very few cities the size of Townsville attempt to produce an orchestra and while Townsville is musically very strong we certainly stretched the music fraternity too far at that time.\~\line\line Our October concert was to feature Ji Won Kim who had won the previous Australian Vocal and Concerto Competition here in Townsville. However, her blossoming career had her overseas at the time, and made her unavailable for that concert. She has since gone on to win the ABC\rquote s Young Performer of the Year Award. We now look forward to hearing her play in our next concert in March 2010.\~\line\line Our guest conductor Sean O\rquote Boyle knew the perfect singers to do a \ldblquote Last Night at the Proms\rdblquote  concert. This concert was a great success! It featured the Townsville Oratorio Choir, the full orchestra, Sean O\rquote Boyle conducting and also included guest piper, Ray Sutton, guest tenor, Gregory Moore and Canadian soprano, Suzanne Kompass at the Civic Theatre.\~\line\line\b\f2 2010\b0\~\line As promised, Ji Won Kim duly performed in our March Concert Romantic Interludes at the Riverway Arts Centre. This well attended concert featured Beethoven Violin Concerto with Ji Won giving a stunning performance. The concert also included Schubert\rquote s Rosamunde Overture and the \ldblquote unfinished\rdblquote  Symphony No. 8 by Schubert. Conductor was Professor John Hopkins.\~\line\line The string section of the Orchestra played at our major sponsor Queensland Nickel\rquote s Open Day in May.\~\line\line In July we celebrated our 10th anniversary with a concert conducted by Richard McIntyre who also conducted the first Barrier Reef Orchestra ten years ago. This was an afternoon tea concert with table settings of ten at Jupiters Hotel Ballroom with high tea served at interval. It was a mixed program intended to suit the occasion with two pieces repeated from the first concert and highlighting the talents of nine local musicians as soloists including John Coulton from London on trumpet (but as an ex Pimlico High Student still counted as local). This concert was extremely well received and also included the distribution of the newly published 10 year commemorative history of the Orchestra prepared by Jean Dartnall.\~\line\line Our October concert featured the 2009 Australian Concerto and Vocal Competition winner Rebecca Chan. It was held at Dancenorth Studio with Professor John Hopkins conducting. Rebecca gave a memorable performance of Mozart Violin Concerto No. 4 and Vaughn Williams Lark Assending. The concert was at 5.0pm and titled Twilight Classics with a varied program including Delibes, Elgar and Grainger. An end of year BBQ followed for members and guests. As special guest performers we also had Pimlico Chamber Strings who gave a short recital which demonstrated the talents that won them the Queensland Fanfare Award for 2010.\~\line\line\b 2011\b0\~\line We have had a notable and rewarding year which saw the Orchestra include other arts groups to great advantage \endash  three choirs, 1RAR Band and Townsville Cinema Group were all involved with us this year. The three concerts attracted a total of 1,457 patrons and two were full houses.\~\line\line On Tuesday, 16th August the great Beethoven 9th Symphony was played at Townsville Civic Theatre with Conductor David Lawrence and soloists from Brisbane and Mackay and the Spirit of the Voice Choir. A full house and a standing ovation. The young choristers of Allegretto choirs provided an entertaining first half before many proud parents and a receptive audience, this concert was however all about Beethoven\rquote s 9th and under the enthusiastic, at times athletic, leadership of British Conductor David Lawrence the orchestra, soloists and the choir gave a dramatic performance.\~\line\line The concert was a major musical and logistical challenge presenting this great work for the first time in Townsville (probably for the first time anywhere in regional Australia). The concert attracted both new audience and new orchestra members and was a greatly rewarding experience for performers and audience alike. It also won the 2011 Performance of the Year trophy at the Townsville City Council Arts Awards.\~\line\line Our final concert had the Barrier Reef Orchestra Going to the Movies at Riverway Arts Centre. Orchestra Manager, Andrew Ryder was the originator and Conductor and it featured members of the 1 RAR Band and visual images were organised by Townsville Cinema Group\~\line\line A concert with a difference \endash  performed in semi- darkness with both still and moving images projected to accompany the varied program of familiar and memorable movie music. Gabriel\rquote s Oboe was a highlight as was the classic Tom and Jerry cartoon. A very well received concert, also one that drew many new faces.\~\line\line March this year had a Russian theme and the sold out concert at Riverway was conducted by our artistic patron, Richard McIntyre and featured 2011 Australian Concerto and Vocal Competition winner Edwina George playing the Prokofiev Violin Concerto No. 2. It also had a small harp solo played by a special guest and international harpist Sebastien Lipman in the Nutcraker Suite by Tchaikovsky.\~\line\line A bonus concert was a recent as this last week when the Orchestra played the 1812 Overture at the Kapyong Day Official Parade along with the 1RAR Band and live cannons at Lavarack Barracks.\~\line\line In 2010 we appointed a paid part time manager; this has now run for two years and has proven most beneficial. Our first manager Andrew Ryder resigned after the October concert due to other work commitments and he has been replaced by Sally Frewen-Lord. I wish to thank Andrew for his great contribution to the year\rquote s success.\~\line\line Our publicity has improved over the year with both the presentation and numbers of posters and banners increasing. The use of reuseable banners re-branded for each concert is proving to be a big saving. Another advance in 2011 was the acquisition of music scores and parts for a BRO repertoire. When these pieces can be included in the rehearsal schedule we will have the ability to fill unforeseen performance opportunities on quite short notice.\~\line\line Sponsorship support in 2011 was excellent and combined with good box office numbers has enabled us to further build up our cash reserves which two years ago were dangerously low.\~\line\line Queensland Nickle, Townsville City Council and the Wheeler Family Charitable Gift Fund have all continued their generous support of our core activities in 2011. Council funding was changed from an annual funding to a 3 year agreement.\~\line\line Two concerts this year had \ldblquote concert sponsors\rdblquote . RACQ sponsored the Beethoven 9th Symphony concert and RSL N.Q. District the Barrier Reef Orchestra Goes to the Movies concert. In both cases the respective organisation\rquote s members received concession admission prices as part of the arrangement.\~\line\line We were also supported during the year with cash or in kind assistance from Kowari Motors, Signs of Excellence, ASAP Printers, Sturt Business Centre, The Keyboard Shop and Pimlico State High School\~\line Grants were received from RADF and the Breakwater Island Casino Community Benefit Fund \endash  as well as the repertoire music mentioned before, the Orchestra now have six adjustable cello chairs. Our sincere thanks go to all of our sponsors and we look forward to their continuing support.\~\line\line\b 2012\b0\~\line 2012 was a very successful year for the orchestra. We presented three concerts, one at Riverway Arts Centre and two at the Civic Theatre. Each was well received and well patronized \endash  a total of 1,434 patrons between the three concerts. Not only is our audience increasing but so also is the orchestra itself \endash  we have many new players and numbered 65 or more musicians on stage at each concert. Our general membership is also increasing and perhaps reflecting this trend (and the increasing workload) we now have an enthusiastic management committee that is twelve strong.\~\line\line The 2012 concert season was very varied. The March concert was conducted by our artistic director Richard McIntyre and was Russian themed \endash  Prokopiev, Rimsky-Korsakov and Tchaikovsky. It featured Edwina George \endash  the 2011 Australian Concerto and Vocal Competition winner as violin soloist and we also had Sebastien Lipman from Brisbane on harp.\~\line\line In August we had our first concert with Mario Dobernig conducting. Mario has been rehearsing the orchestra for the last couple of days and will conduct the coming March concert and also the two musical interludes which we have for you today.\~\line\line The concert last August featured Beethoven\rquote s Emperor Concerto with Raymond Yong on piano and also the New World Symphony. It was an excellent performance, very well received by the audience who insisted on an encore.\~\line\line The November concert was James Morrison Latin Fiesta. This concert was dreamed up by James Morrison and conductor Sean O\rquote Boyle but is reworked for each performance and had previously been performed with the Queensland, Tasmanian and West Australian Orchestras. Our performance is the only one with a community orchestra. The concert was great fun for both the orchestra and the large audience. It was also particularly pleasing to welcome ten members of 1RAR band who joined us as musical partners in this performance.\~\line\line\b 2013\b0\~\line In 2013 we staged three successful concerts with a total audience of 1200 patrons. In March the \ldblquote Works of Art\rdblquote  concert was a sellout at Riverway. Mussorgsky, Strauss and Haydn with conductor Mario Dobernig was well received by an appreciative audience.\~\line In August we had the well named \ldblquote Contrasts\rdblquote  concert with conductor Raymond Yong and a program varying from Beethoven to Sculthorpe and featuring Elgar\rquote s Cello Concerto with Australian Concerto and Vocal Competition winner Yoshika Masuda. This concert was also presented at the Burdekin Theatre, our first performance at another centre for many years. The concert was also notable for our collaboration with Umbrella Studio and ABC Open which resulted in a photo artists group forming to produce a video of images to accompany Schulthorpe\rquote s Mangrove.\~\line We provided an ensemble to play at Anzac Park in September as part of the Bandstand Centenary event and then in October we presented Hats off to Gilbert and Sullivan. This was a quite demanding production devised and conducted by Richard McIntyre and involved 80 singers from North Queensland Opera and Music Theatre and Townsville Choral Society. The chorus combined with a sizable orchestra well and truly filled the Civic stage for what was essentially a Gilbert and Sullivan tribute show featuring excerpts from three operettas tied together by a narrator.<\~\line 2013 saw us maintain our membership numbers and our financial position remained strong. We cover approximately 60% of our expenditure from box office income (which is considered to be very good by not-for-profit arts organisation standards) and the remainder is covered by grants, sponsorship and philanthropy.\~\line Townsville City Council continues to be our principal sponsor with a generous grant that covers our on-going core operational expenses. The Wheeler Family Charitable Gift Fund has also continued its strong support and it was pleasing to welcome Wilmar Sugar as a new sponsor in 2013. Wilmar are supporting us in our Burdekin performance initiative. Great in-kind support has continued from Sturt Business Centre, ASAP Printers, Signs of Excellence and the Australian Concerto and Vocal Competition.\~\line A new fund raising approach in 2013 was our Benefactors appeal. This has had a good start with 17 benefactors currently enrolled and the first renewals about to commence. I believe this particular avenue of fund raising will strengthen over time and prove to be a very reliable source of income provided it is proactively managed.\~\line 2013 saw our first encouragement awards. Two young orchestra members \endash  Craig Land and Lexie Gorton \endash  each received a well deserved $500 award in recognition of their enthusiastic participation in the orchestra and their musical development. I am pleased that the committee is continuing the encouragement awards in 2014.\~\line\line\b 2014\b0\~\line In 2013 we staged three successful concerts with a total audience of 1200 patrons.\~\line\line In March the \ldblquote Works of Art\rdblquote  concert was a sellout at Riverway. Mussorgsky, Strauss and Haydn with conductor Mario Dobernig was well received by an appreciative audience.\~\line\line In August we had the well named \ldblquote Contrasts\rdblquote  concert with conductor Raymond Yong and a program varying from Beethoven to Sculthorpe and featuring Elgar\rquote s Cello Concerto with Australian Concerto and Vocal Competition winner Yoshika Masuda. This concert was also presented at the Burdekin Theatre, our first performance at another centre for many years. The concert was also notable for our collaboration with Umbrella Studio and ABC Open which resulted in a photo artists group forming to produce a video of images to accompany Schulthorpe\rquote s Mangrove.\~\line\line We provided an ensemble to play at Anzac Park in September as part of the Bandstand Centenary event and then in October we presented Hats off to Gilbert and Sullivan. This was a quite demanding production devised and conducted by Richard McIntyre and involved 80 singers from North Queensland Opera and Music Theatre and Townsville Choral Society. The chorus combined with a sizable orchestra well and truly filled the Civic stage for what was essentially a Gilbert and Sullivan tribute show featuring excerpts from three operettas tied together by a narrator.\~\line\line 2013 saw us maintain our membership numbers and our financial position remained strong. We cover approximately 60% of our expenditure from box office income (which is considered to be very good by not-for-profit arts organisation standards) and the remainder is covered by grants, sponsorship and philanthropy.\~\line\line Townsville City Council continues to be our principal sponsor with a generous grant that covers our on-going core operational expenses. The Wheeler Family Charitable Gift Fund has also continued its strong support and it was pleasing to welcome Wilmar Sugar as a new sponsor in 2013. Wilmar are supporting us in our Burdekin performance initiative. Great in-kind support has continued from Sturt Business Centre, ASAP Printers, Signs of Excellence and the Australian Concerto and Vocal Competition.\~\line\line A new fund raising approach in 2013 was our Benefactors appeal. This has had a good start with 17 benefactors currently enrolled and the first renewals about to commence. I believe this particular avenue of fund raising will strengthen over time and prove to be a very reliable source of income provided it is proactively managed.\~\line\line 2013 saw our first encouragement awards. Two young orchestra members \endash  Craig Land and Lexie Gorton \endash  each received a well deserved $500 award in recognition of their enthusiastic participation in the orchestra and their musical development. I am pleased that the committee is continuing the encouragement awards in 2014.\~\line\line I would like to thank all the players who together produced such excellent performances in 2013. Our audience is growing and the quality of our concerts is certainly one of the reasons for this. I would also like to acknowledge the hard working committee who do so much behind the scenes. Particular thanks are due to Alan Nixon who is now retiring after seven years as Secretary and to Annette Ellis who has been Treasurer for seven years and is continuing in that position. Special mention must also be made of Stephen Frewen-Lord\rquote s continuing role as Concert Master and the tireless efforts of several rehearsal conductors.\~\line\line As I am now retiring as President this is my last report. Over the last five years it has been gratifying to see the Barrier Reef Orchestra make considerable progress. In 2009 the orchestra was in the doldrums. It was drawing an audience of 150 or less, had less than $10,000 in cash reserves and performed as an orchestra of about 40 players. In fact the mid year concert in 2009 was cancelled because we simply could not muster the players required for the concert program. We are now drawing a audience of 300 to 400 if not more, have cash reserves around $70,000 and field an orchestra of 60 to 70 players, depending on the program. We have also had a paid manager for several years and our current manager Sally Frewen-Lord has achieved organisational wonders. This transformation has occurred only because of the great effort that has been put in over years by managers, members both playing and non-playing, by committee members and by sponsors, supporters and philanthropists, so it is very much a team effort.\~\line\line I am confident that this enthusiasm and support will continue under Andrew Ryder\rquote s presidency and the orchestra will retain and enhance its position as one of the leading organizations in Townsville\rquote s arts community.\~\fs22\par
\f0\fs20\par
\b\f1\fs22\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\b0\f0\fs20\line\b\f1\fs22\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b0\lang9\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\f2\lang3081\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f3\lang9\par
}
 